- [Instructor] Hi, and
welcome back to the programme.
In this video, we're
going to look at something
that is going to allow us
to simplify greatly the code
that we saw in the last
video about inheritance.
But in order to make
digesting things a bit easier,
I'm going to first teach this
in a simpler environment.
Let's imagine we've got a
method which has arg1, arg2.
And then it just returns arg1 + arg2.
This is just a sum method essentially,
and we could do my method five and six.
If we wanted to add more things together,
just as an example, my long method.
We could do something
like arg1, arg2, arg3,
arg4, arg5, arg6, and so
on, and then return that.
Which doesn't really make a lot of sense.
An option would be to use a list.
For example, def my list addition.
And then we could return
the sum of list arg,
and we already know this.
And we already know that we can do this
because we've looked at
lists, we've looked at
the sum method, there's nothing new here.
However, there is something that differs
between my long method
and my list addition,
and that is the following.
If we want to do my long
method, we pass in numbers
like so, and if we want
to do my list addition,
we have to pass in a list.
And that may not be a big deal, but
you have to pass in a list
of what you want to add.
There is a way, however, of adding
an unlimited number of arguments.
Like so.
For example, this
addition simplified method
has a parameter called *args.
This is a list of arguments that have been
passed to the method.
So then, we can do addition simplified,
three, five, seven, 12, 14, 55.
These parameters get converted to a list,
and then we can operate on them as a list.
But we don't have to pass in a list,
that makes things a bit more complicated,
because then when we call this method,
we have to remember that
we have to pass in a list.
Whereas if we have something like this,
we can pass in an unlimited
number of arguments,
and they will be a list,
but we don't have to worry
about them being a list.
Just as we have args, we also
have something called kwargs.
So what are kwargs?
Well, we have a parameter called *args,
and then we have **kwargs.
So let's bring those out,
print args and print kwargs.
And let's call what are
kwargs with some parameters,
like 12, 34, 56, and let's run that.
So what do you think is gonna
happen when we run this?
Remember none of our other
methods printed anything,
so the only thing we're gonna see
is this print args and print kwargs.
So I'll press play because I
wouldn't expect you to guess,
but here's what we get.
A tuple of arguments and an empty set.
So evidently, kwargs is some sort of set,
because it's got the opening
and closing curly brace
that we know is a set.
But here's the thing, not
something we've seen before,
but in Python, we can
give names to arguments.
We can give names to arguments.
So we can say 12, 34, 56,
but then we can also say
name equals Jose, location equals UK.
When we run this again, we
get a set of key value pairs,
which we know to be a
dictionary, name and location.
If we knew we always
want name and location,
then we don't need to use kwargs,
we can use name and location, like so.
And then, well args and
kwargs are narrowly defined,
but you know, we can print
name and print location.
This works just as well, because Python
knows to associate Jose with
the parameter called name,
and location with the
parameter called location.
So we can do this, and
what's interesting about this
is that we can do it in
the wrong order if we want.
And that works just as well.
So this simplifies
things a bit because now
the order of the
parameters stops mattering,
and what starts mattering is the name
that we give the parameters.
So we can do this if we
want, or we can not do it
if we don't want.
Something to remember,
however, is that we cannot have
something like arg1, like pass at the end.
This gives us an error, because
the positional arguments
are following a keyword
argument, and you cannot do that.
So the arguments that
have a name always have
to come at the end.
So the 56 would always have
to be at the beginning.
That's the only sort of caveat with it.
So now that we've looked
at args and kwargs,
and we know what they are,
how would we simplify this friend method?
And what I would do is I would
substitute salary for args.
And then I would substitute
this salary for args again.
And then what happens
is that we can pass in
any number of arguments,
and then we're passing
sort of any number of arguments
back to the init method.
And in here, when we pass
17.5, that's the only argument
left other than origin and friend name.
So we've got origin,
we've got friend name,
and then we've got one
positional argument left,
and that's gonna be args.
We're gonna pass that
on to the init method,
and that is then gonna be salary,
because friend name and
the school are already set,
so the only arg left is salary,
so that's gonna be that.
So let's run this
with the inheritance, and
you can see that we still
get the 17.5 there.
The added benefit of
this is that if we then
add something like job
title then at the end,
we can just put it in at the
end here, software developer,
and we do not have to change
the friend implementation.
We are now passing two arguments,
two arguments, two
arguments, two arguments,
and then they get used.
So this allows us to
simplify things a lot more,
when we don't know what is coming.
And of course, if we wanted
to make it keyword arguments,
then we can do that,
but here we have to say
salary equals and job title equals.
And then,
made a mistake somewhere,
have I?
Oh yeah, yeah, of course,
the job title's missing
from this one here,
sorry, forgot about that,
software developer.
And then it still works.
So the named parameters will still work
as you would expect, because now salary as
17.50 and job title as software developer
are being passed in as keyword arguments,
and then they're being passed
in again to the init method,
and then they get matched to salary
and job title, respectively.
It is not uncommon for when a
method needs to be generalised
like this to do this.
It's very, very common to
pass both args and kwargs
and then it can basically cope
with anything that you change
For example, we could
pass in salary of 17.50,
and job title equals software developer,
so this one no longer has
a name, we can now do this,
this is fine because the
args get passed in first,
and the kwargs get passed in later.
So everything sort of matches up nicely.
So hopefully this all makes some sense
and remember this is a Python refresher,
and also the examples
here are very limited.
We're going to be using this a lot more
throughout the course,
and then everything's
gonna sort of jell together,
make a lot more sense.
So I apologise if this
all seems rather jarring
and useless, in this case it is useless,
but it will become useful as we move
along the course, I promise.
But that's everything for this video,
talking about args and kwargs,
and how you can pass in
an unlimited number of
positional arguments,
those defined by position,
like these three,
and keyword arguments, those
defined with a keyword.
And that's everything for this video,
so I'll see you in the next one.